DATE: 09-07-2024

Installing Chocolatey:
	
	On browser search for 'Installing Chocolatey' and visit the official site copy the command
	{
		Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))
	}

	Open the Terminal/Command Prompt with Administrator Permissions, paste the command and run it

	For any prompt it asks type in 'Y' for Yes and let it complete the setup

	To verify installation run the command 'Choco --version' 


Installing Python:

	1] By downloading Python installer

		Download the python installer from python.org's download section depending on the Operating System

		Run this installer by double clicking on it and once open click on 'Add Python to PATH'

		Then go on click on install and complete the setup

		check for its version using "python --version" in Terminal/Command Prompt and also to verify if it is properly added to path

	2] By Terminal Using Chocolatey
		
		open the Terminal/Command Prompt and put in the command "choco install python"

		check for the version and if it is properly added to Path variable

		If "python --version" is not working then locate the its file and add it the Path Variable by going through the Edit Environment Variable setting from Control Panel


Integrated Development Environment:
	
	Definition
	An integrated development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities for software development.

	Features:
		1] Code Editor (Syntax Highlighting and Code Completion)
		2] Compiler/Interpreter (Convert Code into executable programs)
		3] Debugger (Help Find and Fix Errors)
		4] Build Automation Tools (Automate Repetitive task)
		5] User Interface (Single Interface)
		6] Version Control (Integration with Git)

	IDE examples are Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, BlueJ, Atom 


Text Editor:
	
	Definition
	A text editor is a software application used for editing plain text.

	Features:
		1] Basic Editing (Create, open, edit and save files)
		2] Syntax Highlighting (Highlights heading and paragraphs for readability)
		3] Search and Replace (Find Specific Text and replace it)
		4] Line Number (Display line number for reference)
		5] Customizability (Customize appearance and behaviour with themes and plugins)

	Text Editor examples are Notepad, Sublime Text, Vim etc


Difference between IDE and Text Editor:

	Text Editor

		Purpose: Basic text manipulation and code editing.
		Examples: Notepad, Sublime Text, Vim.

		Key Features:
			Simplicity: Lightweight and fast, minimal features.
			Syntax Highlighting: Colors code according to language syntax.
			Basic Search and Replace: Simple text manipulations.
			Extensions/Add-ons: Additional functionality through plugins.


	IDE (Integrated Development Environment)

		Purpose: Comprehensive suite for software development.
		Examples: Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, BlueJ, Atom.

		Key Features:
			Code Editor: Advanced text editing with syntax highlighting.
			Compiler/Interpreter: Built-in tools to compile or run code.
			Debugger: Tools to set breakpoints, inspect variables, and step through code.
			Version Control Integration: Support for systems like Git.
			Project Management: Tools to manage files and resources.
			Integrated Terminal/Command Line: Access to command-line tools.
			Code Completion and IntelliSense: Suggests completions and shows documentation.
			Refactoring Tools: Helps restructure code without changing behavior.
	
	Summary

		Text Editor: Simple, lightweight, great for quick edits and small projects.
		IDE: Feature-rich, ideal for larger, more complex projects requiring robust tools.

Visual Studio Code and PyCharm:


	Visual Studio Code-
		Open-source code editor developed by Microsoft.

		Key Features:
		Extensible with plugins and extensions, Integrated terminal, debugging support, Git integration, Supports multiple programming languages

		Best Used For: General-purpose coding, web development, and multi-language projects.

		Advantages: Fast, customizable, large extension marketplace.


	PyCharm-
		A powerful Integrated Development Environment (IDE) developed by JetBrains, specifically for Python development.

		Key Feature:
		Intelligent code editor with code completion and navigation, Advanced debugging and testing tools, Integrated version control, Support for web frameworks like Django and Flask, Database and SQL support

		Best For: Python development, including web development and data science.

		Advantages: Feature-rich, highly optimized for Python, strong support for web development frameworks.


Environment Variable:
	
	Definition
	Environment variables are dynamic named values that can affect the way running processes behave on a computer.	

	Usage: Used by operating systems to customize the environment for processes.

	Types: System-wide variables available to all users or user-specific variables.

	Purpose: Provide a way to influence the behaviour of software and processes without altering the program itself.

	Examples: PATH variable in Windows and Unix-like systems, which specifies directories where executable programs are located.

	Modification: Can be set, modified, or deleted by users or automated processes to change how applications behave.


Python Virtual Environment:
	
	Definition
	A virtual environment is a self-contained directory that houses a Python interpreter and libraries specific to a project, isolated from the system-wide Python environment.

	Setup:
	
		Install virtualenv: If not installed, use pip install virtualenv.

		Create Virtual Environment: Navigate to project directory, run virtualenv env.

		Activate Virtual Environment:

		Windows: .\\env\\Scripts\\activate

		macOS/Linux: source env/bin/activate

		Verify Activation: Prompt shows (env) indicating active environment.

		Install Dependencies: Use pip to install project-specific packages.

		Deactivate Environment: Use deactivate command to exit virtual environment.